Data Cleaning continues building proficiency in the data analytics life cycle with data preparation skills. 
This course addresses exploring, transforming, and imputing data as well as handling outliers. Learners write code to manipulate, structure, and clean data as well as to reduce features in data sets. 
The following courses are prerequisites: The Data Analytics Journey, and Data Acquisition.


COMPETENCIES
4030.03.01 : Predicting Obstacles to Cleaning Data

The graduate predicts potential obstacles in data analysis based on the quality of the data provided.

4030.03.02 : Preparing Data for Analysis

The graduate prepares data for analysis to address a business need.

4030.03.03 : Writing code to Clean data

The graduate writes reusable code to manipulate and clean data in preparation for analysis.

INTRODUCTION
In a previous course you used SQL methods to collect data for analysis and to support decision-making processes. The next step involves preparing the data for analysis, a process known as data cleaning. You will explore various graphs and statistics to identify outliers, consider various methods to handle missing data, such as imputation, and explore a basic use of principal component analysis (PCA) for data reduction of a set of variables.



To complete this assessment, you will use raw data from the industry of your choice and prepare the data set for analysis. You will also create visualizations and deliver a clean data set ready for exploratory analysis.

SCENARIO
For this task, you will select one of the Data Dictionary and Data Set files from the following link:



D206 Definitions and Data files



You will review the Data Dictionary to understand the needs of the company and to prepare to clean the data. In this assessment, you will analyze the .csv data file, also referred to as the data set.

REQUIREMENTS
Your submission must be your original work. No more than a combined total of 30% of the submission and no more than a 10% match to any one individual source can be directly quoted or closely paraphrased from sources, even if cited correctly. The originality report that is provided when you submit your task can be used as a guide.

You must use the rubric to direct the creation of your submission because it provides detailed criteria that will be used to evaluate your work. Each requirement below may be evaluated by more than one rubric aspect. The rubric aspect titles may contain hyperlinks to relevant portions of the course.

Tasks may not be submitted as cloud links, such as links to Google Docs, Google Slides, OneDrive, etc., unless specified in the task requirements. All other submissions must be file types that are uploaded and submitted as attachments (e.g., .docx, .pdf, .ppt). 



Part I: Research Question



A.  Describe one question or decision that you will address using the data set you chose. The summarized question or decision must be relevant to a realistic organizational need or situation.
 

B.  Describe the variables in the data set and indicate the specific type of data being described. Use examples from the data set that support your claims.
 

Part II: Data-Cleaning Plan



Note: You may use Python, R, or any other programming language for implementing your coding solutions, manipulating the data, and creating visual representations.
 

C.  Explain the plan for cleaning the data by doing the following:

1.  Propose a plan that includes the relevant techniques and specific steps needed to identify anomalies in the data set.

2.  Justify your approach for assessing the quality of the data, include:

•  characteristics of the data being assessed,

•  the approach used to assess the quality.

3.  Justify your selected programming language and any libraries and packages that will support the data-cleaning process.

4.  Provide the code you will use to identify the anomalies in the data.
 

Part III: Data Cleaning



D.  Summarize the data-cleaning process by doing the following:

1.  Describe the findings, including all anomalies, from the implementation of the data-cleaning plan from part C.

2.  Justify your methods for mitigating each type of discovered anomaly in the data set.

3.  Summarize the outcome from the implementation of each data-cleaning step.

4.  Provide the code used to mitigate anomalies.

5.  Provide a copy of the cleaned data set.

6.  Summarize the limitations of the data-cleaning process.

7.  Discuss how the limitations in part D6 affect the analysis of the question or decision from part A.
 

E.  Apply principal component analysis (PCA) to identify the significant features of the data set by doing the following:

1.  List the principal components in the data set.

2.  Describe how you identified the principal components of the data set.

3.  Describe how the organization can benefit from the results of the PCA
 

Part IV. Supporting Documents



F.  Provide a Panopto recording that demonstrates the warning- and error-free functionality of the code used to support the discovery of anomalies and the data cleaning process and summarizes the programming environment.
 

Note: For instructions on how to access and use Panopto, use the "Panopto How-To Videos" web link provided below. To access Panopto's website, navigate to the web link titled "Panopto Access", and then choose to log in using the “WGU” option. If prompted, log in using your WGU student portal credentials, and then it will forward you to Panopto’s website.
 

To submit your recording, upload it to the Panopto drop box titled “Data Cleaning – NUM2 \ D206” Once the recording has been uploaded and processed in Panopto's system, retrieve the URL of the recording from Panopto and copy and paste it into the Links option. Upload the remaining task requirements using the Attachments option.
 

G.  Reference the web sources used to acquire segments of third-party code to support the application. Be sure the web sources are reliable.
 

H.  Acknowledge sources, using in-text citations and references, for content that is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized.
 

I.  Demonstrate professional communication in the content and presentation of your submission.
