Exploratory Data Analysis covers statistical principles supporting the data analytics life cycle. 
Students in this course compute and interpret measures of central tendency, correlations, and variation. The course introduces hypothesis testing, focusing on application for parametric tests, and addresses communication skills and tools to explain an analyst’s findings to others within an organization. 
Data Cleaning is a required prerequisite for this course.

COMPETENCIES
4030.04.01 : Data Interpretation

The graduate interprets central tendency, correlations, and variations to inform organizational decisions.

4030.04.02 : Conducting Parametric Testing

The graduate conducts parametric hypothesis testing.

INTRODUCTION
An organization has collected raw data to analyze its operations and support its decision-making processes. The raw data files from the Data Cleaning course have been cleaned and prepared for exploratory analysis.



To compete this assessment, you will access a data dictionary file and its corresponding data flat file. You will analyze the data set using specific techniques, create visualizations, and deliver the results of your analysis.



Note: This assessment requires you to submit pictures, graphics, and/or diagrams. Each file must be a supporting document no larger than 30 MB in size. Diagrams must be original and may be hand-drawn or drawn using a graphics program. Do not use CAD programs because the file will be too large.

SCENARIO
For this task, you will select one of the Data Dictionary and the matching Data Set files from the following link:



D207 Definition and Data files



You will review the Data Dictionary to understand the needs of the company and to prepare to analyze the data. In this assessment, you will analyze the .csv data file, also referred to as the data set.

REQUIREMENTS
Your submission must be your original work. No more than a combined total of 30% of the submission and no more than a 10% match to any one individual source can be directly quoted or closely paraphrased from sources, even if cited correctly. The originality report that is provided when you submit your task can be used as a guide.

 

You must use the rubric to direct the creation of your submission because it provides detailed criteria that will be used to evaluate your work. Each requirement below may be evaluated by more than one rubric aspect. The rubric aspect titles may contain hyperlinks to relevant portions of the course.

 

Tasks may not be submitted as cloud links, such as links to Google Docs, Google Slides, OneDrive, etc., unless specified in the task requirements. All other submissions must be file types that are uploaded and submitted as attachments (e.g., .docx, .pdf, .ppt).

 

A.  Describe a real-world organizational situation or issue in the Data Dictionary you chose, by doing the following:

1.  Provide one question that is relevant to your chosen data set. You will answer this question later in the task through an analysis of the cleaned data, using one of the following techniques: chi-square, t-test, or analysis of variance (ANOVA).

2.  Explain how stakeholders in the organization could benefit from an analysis of the data.

3.  Identify all of the data in your data set that are relevant to answering your question in part A1.

 

B.  Describe the data analysis by doing the following:

1.  Using one of the following techniques, write code (in either Python or R) to run the analysis of the data set:

•   chi-square

•   t-test

•   ANOVA

2.  Provide the output and the results of any calculations from the analysis you performed.

3.  Justify why you chose this analysis technique.

 

C.  Identify the distribution of two continuous variables and two categorical variables using univariate statistics from your cleaned and prepared data. 

Represent your findings in Part C, visually as part of your submission.
 

Note: To draw a graph or visualization, you may use one or a combination of the following:

- A spreadsheet program, such as Excel (*.xls)

- A graphics program, such as Paint (*.jpeg, *.gif)

- A word-processing program, such as Word (*.rtf) 

- A scanned hand-drawn graph (*.jpeg, *.gif)

 

D.  Identify the distribution of two continuous variables and two categorical variables using bivariate statistics from your cleaned and prepared data.

Represent your findings in Part D, visually as part of your submission.
 

Note: To draw a graph or visualization, you may use one or a combination of the following:

- A spreadsheet program, such as Excel (*.xls)

- A graphics program, such as Paint (*.jpeg, *.gif)

- A word-processing program, such as Word (*.rtf) 

- A scanned hand-drawn graph (*.jpeg, *.gif)

  

E.  Summarize the implications of your data analysis by doing the following:

1.  Discuss the results of the hypothesis test.

2.  Discuss the limitations of your data analysis.

3.  Recommend a course of action based on your results.

 

F.  Provide a Panopto video recording that includes a demonstration of the functionality of the code used for the analysis and a summary of the tool(s) used. 

 

Note: For instructions on how to access and use Panopto, use the "Panopto How-To Videos" web link provided below. To access Panopto's website, navigate to the web link titled "Panopto Access," and then choose to log in using the “WGU” option. If prompted, log in using your WGU student portal credentials, and then it will forward you to Panopto’s website.

 

To submit your recording, upload it to the Panopto drop box titled “Exploratory Data Analysis – OEM2 \ D207.” Once the recording has been uploaded and processed in Panopto's system, retrieve the URL of the recording from Panopto and copy and paste it into the Links option. Upload the remaining task requirements using the Attachments option. 

 

G.  Reference the web sources used to acquire segments of third-party code to support the analysis. 

 

H.  Acknowledge sources, using in-text citations and references, for content that is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized.

 

I.   Demonstrate professional communication in the content and presentation of your submission.
